.\" Copyright (C) 2011 G.P. Halkes
.\" This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License version 3, as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.TH "linkltc" "1" "<DATE>" "Version <VERSION>" "Create symbolic links for LTCs"
.hw /usr/share/doc/libtranscript-<VERSION> http://os.ghalkes.nl/libtranscript.html

.SH NAME

\fBlinkltc\fP \- create symbolic links for LibTranscript Converters (LTCs)
.SH SYNOPSIS

\fBlinkltc\fP <\fIFILE\fP> ...
.SH DESCRIPTION

\fBlinkltc\fP creates symbolic links for LibTranscript Converters (LTCs). A
single LTC may contain multiple converters, and a symbolic link for the names
of the alternate converters is required for libtranscript to find them.
.SH OPTIONS

\fBlinkltc\fP accepts the following options:
.IP "\fB\-v\fP, \fB\-\-verbose\fP"
Produce verbose output to standard error.
.PP
To stop \fBlinkltc\fP from interpreting file names that start with a dash as
options, one can specify a double dash (\-\-) after which \fBlinkltc\fP will
interpret any following arguments as files to read.
.SH BUGS

If you think you have found a bug, please check that you are using the latest
version of \fBlibtranscript\fP [http://os.ghalkes.nl/libtranscript.html]. When
reporting bugs, please include a minimal example that demonstrates the problem.
.SH AUTHOR

G.P. Halkes <libtranscript@ghalkes.nl>
.SH COPYRIGHT

Copyright \(co 2011 G.P. Halkes
.br
libtranscript is licensed under the GNU General Public License version 3.
.br
For more details on the license, see the file COPYING in the documentation
directory. On Un*x systems this is usually
/usr/share/doc/libtranscript.
